---
title: "Becoming Comfortable With Not Knowing"
author: Nidhi C A
vinternship_id: WIN251467
---

When I began my Vinternship journey at VLED Lab, I thought learning would feel structured, like most classes do — a concept explained, notes taken, practice completed, and then moving on. But this experience was different. There were moments when nothing worked. When npm run dev threw errors I didn’t understand. When MongoDB refused to connect. When APIs returned the same response no matter what I changed. I remember staring at my screen wondering, “Am I even meant for this?” And yet, those were the moments that shaped me the most.

On ViBe, nobody constantly monitored progress. No one forced consistency. It was just me and the work. At first, that freedom felt uncomfortable. There were no immediate grades, no attendance pressure, no one reminding me every minute what to do next. There was only the quiet responsibility of showing up daily. That silence taught me something powerful: learning does not happen only when someone is teaching; it happens when no one is watching. Consistency stopped being a motivational word and became something I had to practice. If I skipped a day, I felt the gap immediately. If I showed up even confused something slowly started connecting.

The case studies pushed me even further. They weren’t step-by-step tutorials. They required thinking, decision-making, and sometimes sitting with confusion longer than I was comfortable with. Designing endpoints, testing APIs, debugging backend issues — none of it felt easy at the beginning. There were moments when I didn’t know where to start. But over time, my mindset began to change. Instead of asking, “Why isn’t this working?” I started asking, “What is this trying to teach me?” Debugging stopped feeling like failure and started feeling like investigation. That small shift made a huge difference.

What I learned most during this journey wasn’t just technical. It was emotional. The hardest part of coding isn’t syntax; it’s doubt. Doubt when your code doesn’t compile. Doubt when others seem to understand faster. Doubt before a viva when you feel unprepared anyway. But this internship normalized struggle. Through discussions, feedback, and collaborative sessions, I realized that everyone struggles — the difference is who stays through it. And I stayed. Even on days when I didn’t feel confident. Even when progress felt invisible.

Before this internship, I measured growth in outcomes. Now I measure it in resilience. I am less afraid of errors. I am more comfortable asking questions. I understand that consistency matters more than intensity. Most importantly, I have become comfortable with not knowing. Because not knowing is not weakness — it is the starting point of every real developer.

If someone asked me what I gained from this journey, I wouldn’t talk about the tech stack or the tools. I would talk about the shift from “I hope I can do this” to “I don’t know how yet, but I will figure it out.” And maybe that was the real lesson all along.

---

Author: [Nidhi C A](www.linkedin.com/in/nidhi-c-a-761964288/){:target="_blank"}
LinkedIn Article: [Read on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/becoming-comfortable-knowing-nidhi-c-a-963ec/?trackingId=KJr3dTVT%2BoF7w2Gf1QoPow%3D%3D){:target="_blank"}
