---
title: "I Thought Struggle Meant Failure. I Was Wrong!!"
author: Sai Nirvignaa
pinternship_id: WIN25997
---

This was my first internship, and honestly, I had no idea how internships actually worked. In my head, I believed we would be directly assigned projects from day one—and that scared me. I kept worrying whether I would be able to do them, whether I was good enough, or whether I would disappoint myself.

But this internship didn’t start that way.

Instead of throwing us into projects, NPTEL chose to prepare us from scratch. We were introduced to a platform called ViBe, where the entire MERN stack content was uploaded in the form of very short videos—each just one or two minutes long. The design felt intentional, almost like scrolling through reels or shorts, which made learning feel lighter and less overwhelming. There was even an AI proctoring system, which made the experience feel serious and structured at the same time.

Halfway through the learning phase, things became difficult.

To be honest, ViBe gave me a lot of trouble. The platform lagged frequently, and that frustration slowly turned into a loss of interest. There were moments when I questioned whether this experience was worth the effort. I felt stuck—not because of the content, but because of the obstacles around it.

That’s when a few words from Sudarshan sir changed my entire way of thinking.

He asked us to look at the bugs causing the platform to lag not as problems, but as opportunities. He encouraged us to think like developers—what would a developer do when faced with this issue? That single shift in perspective changed everything for me. From that day, I stopped seeing difficulties as barriers and started seeing them as chances to think, learn, and grow.

Then came the most enjoyable phase of the internship—breakout rooms.

We were given case studies that had to be solved within a limited time. Whenever we felt stuck, breakout rooms became our safe space. Students from all over India came together in a single meeting, discussing the same problem, sharing ideas, and helping one another. It felt strange at first. Being an introvert, I hesitated to speak. I was afraid of saying the wrong thing.

But eventually, I took a step forward and asked my first question.

That moment changed everything.

Breakout rooms became the best part of the journey. I made new friends, learned from different perspectives, and realised how powerful collaboration can be. We didn’t compete—we supported each other. Slowly, I became more interactive, more confident, and more willing to speak up.

Through this journey, I learned the true meaning of consistency, interaction, and collaboration. When Sudarshan sir said, “Your network is your net worth,” I finally understood it—not as a quote, but as a lived experience.

This internship didn’t just teach me how to code.

It taught me how to step forward.
How to ask questions.
How to work together in a collaborative environment.

And that, for me, is the most valuable lesson I’ll carry ahead.
---

Author: [Sai Nirvignaa](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sai-nirvignaa-4b9196367/){:target="_blank"}  
LinkedIn Article: [Read on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sai-nirvignaa-4b9196367/){:target="_blank"}
