---
title: "My Experience as an Intern at IIT Ropar"
author: Paridhi Gupta
vinternship_id: WIN25282R
---

This Internship gave me a learning environment that felt different from what I was used to earlier. Through ViBe and the MERN learning phase, the focus was not on completing things quickly, but on understanding through practice. ViBe does not allow passive consumption — it demands attention, presence, and understanding.

Alongside the course, I have been working on case studies. I have completed about half of the TypeScript case studies and am continuing with the remaining ones while progressing through the course. So far, I have completed React and have started learning MongoDB. Working on case studies in parallel has helped me apply concepts practically and think through problems rather than just memorizing solutions.

One thing I noticed in myself during this Internship was the importance of consistency. Even when progress felt slow, showing up regularly helped. Listening to different perspectives in breakout rooms and observing how others approached the same problem made me reflect on my own way of thinking.

Daily standups became something I genuinely looked forward to. The sessions were engaging, with positive vibes only. Listening to everyone share their progress made the experience feel more connected and motivating.

This experience hasn’t changed everything overnight. But it has changed how I approach learning. I am more comfortable not knowing something immediately. I am more willing to spend time understanding instead of rushing.

This Internship did not begin for me with Cohort 2. I was part of the first cohort but had to step away due to my university exams. Being given the opportunity to return—and make better use of it this time—is something I truly value.

Looking back at the first two weeks, I feel they were well spent. I learned the importance of understanding basics, being consistent, working in a team, and learning from people with more experience.

I’m grateful for the opportunity provided, and I would like to sincerely thank Prof. Sudarshan Iyengar Sir and the team for designing and guiding this Internship. The structure, support, and learning environment made this experience meaningful.

Being able to return after stepping away is something I value. This Internship gave me space to learn at my own pace and reminded me that learning is a process, not a race.

---

Author: [Paridhi Gupta](https://www.linkedin.com/in/paridhi-gupta-968aa1293){:target="_blank"}  
LinkedIn Article: [Read on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/checkpoint/challengesV2/AQFq0FNdMi53gwAAAZwtMemEMMnQ-XB-twh4H8F38xZsNP1sfPPR334lWIG2Y3ozhaZBX8TE40TAps3D_WFWe0e36HNuWqj_sA?ut=0bnBFbCRjGdc81){:target="_blank"}
